David Vega-Guzmán received his B.S. in Systems and Computing Engineering from Universidad de los Andes. He has worked as Teaching Assistant for the Mobile Development Course, and he is interested in M-Health solutions, cloud computing and cybersecurity.

Catia Trubiani is Assistant Professor at the Gran Sasso Science Institute (GSSI), L’Aquila, Italy. Before joining the GSSI, she has been with various international research institutes like the Imperial College of London, UK, and the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany. Her main research interests include the dependability analysis and refactoring of large-scale software systems under uncertainties. Among various research projects she is involved, she is principal investigator of the GSSI unit for the MIUR-PRIN project SEDUCE (Young Line action) and for the MIUR-FISR project MVM-Adapt. She recently received the Exceptional Reviewer Award for ICSA, and the 10-year Most Influential Paper Award for ICPE, both in 2021. More information is available here: http://cs.gssi.it/catia.trubiani.

Mario Linares-Vásquez is an Assistant Professor at Universidad de los Andes in Colombia. He received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from the College of William and Mary in 2016. He received his B.S. in Systems Engineering from Universidad Nacional de Colombia in 2005, and his M.S. in Systems Engineering and Computing from Universidad Nacional de Colombia in 2009. His research interests include software evolution and maintenance, software architecture, mining software repositories, application of data mining and machine learning techniques to support software engineering tasks, and mobile development.

Gabriele Bavota is an Assistant Professor at the Universitá della Svizzera italiana (USI), Switzerland. He received the Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of Salerno, Italy, in 2013. His research interests include software maintenance, empirical software engineering, and mining software repository. He is the author of over 100 papers appeared in international journals, conferences and workshops. He received four ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper awards at ASE 2013, ESEC-FSE 2015, ICSE 2015, and ASE 2017, the best paper award at SCAM 2012, and three distinguished reviewer awards at WCRE 2012, SANER 2015, and MSR 2015. He served as a Program Co-Chair for ICPC’16, SCAM’16, and SANER’17. He also serves and has served as organizing and program committee member of international conferences in the field of software engineering, such as ICSE, FSE, ASE, ICSME, MSR, SANER, ICPC, SCAM, and others..