Angela Mae V. Encinas is a third-year student taking the specialization track in Cybersecurity under the Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BS-IT) program at Mapua University. She graduated high school at Centro Escolar University wherein during her education, conducted a study along with her classmates in the STEM track entitled "Incidence of Water-Borne Bacteria in Makati City".

Kiel Cedrick T. Huplo graduated from the University of Saint Louis in his high school and is currently a third-year college student under the course of Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT) at Mapua University. He is currently taking his specialization in Cybersecurity, along with his fellow co-authors. In his junior year in secondary school, with the help of his co-researchers, they conducted a study entitled "Evaluation of Atis Seeds, Leaves, And Barks (Annona Squamosa) Against Various Types of Pests" and while in his senior year he and his co-researchers conducted the study entitled "Library Utilization of Senior High School Students".

Mark Anthony V. Marin completed his high school education at Bulacan State University – Laboratory High School, under the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) strand. He is currently a third-year student in Mapúa University under the program, Bachelor of Science in Information Technology, and specializing in Cybersecurity. Before taking the path of Information Technology and Cybersecurity, in his last year of being a STEM student, he was one of the researchers of the study “EdiBOWL: Alternative Edible Kitchenware”.

Stephany Lhaime G. Zamora is a high school graduate from Divine Light Academy. During her secondary education, her track strand is STEM where she, along with co-researchers, conducted a study entitled “The Effectiveness of Potassium Alum Sulfate as an Alternative Flame Retardant on Fabrics”. She is currently a third-year student from Mapúa University taking up B.S. in Information Technology and is specializing in Cybersecurity. She is a member of Youth for Christ (YFC) in Mapúa Makati.

© IEOM Society International 6472.